Welcome everyone from r/all! Please remember:
1 - You too can be part of the PCMR! You don't even need a PC. You just need to love PCs! It's not about the hardware in your rig, but the software in your heart! Your age, nationality, race, gender, sexuality, religion (or lack of), political affiliation, economic status and PC specs are irrelevant. If you love or want to learn about PCs, you can be part of our community! All are welcome!
2 - If you're not a PC gamer because you think it's expensive, know that it is possible to build a competent gaming PC for a lower price than you think. Check http://www.pcmasterrace.org for our builds and don't be afraid to post here asking for tips and help!
3 - Join our efforts to get as many PCs worldwide to help the folding@home effort, in fighting against Cancer, Covid, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and more: https://pcmasterrace.org/folding

Feel free to post about any kind of doubt you might have about becoming a PC user or any other PC related question. That kind of content is not only allowed but welcome! We also have a Daily Simple Questions Megathread for your simplest questions. No question is too dumb!
Welcome to the PCMR.

Remakes are fine. They overhaul the game a lot.
Remasters and upgrades shouldn't be.

The line is thin. Homeworld Remastered is called remastered, but it overhauls the gameplay, upgrades he graphics and UI to the point where it barely controls the same as the original, and adds two factions from the 2nd game into the first. And it's all done in a completely new engine.
Surely that's a remake, no?

That's a remake in my opinion


in my opinion

Kinda the issue here. Who is going to be the authority on what is and what isnt a remake?

Whoever is in charge of the awards/categories. The rule could require substantial changes to the game and they can decide whether a remake/remaster qualifies. 
Game award categories aren't super high stakes and it's pretty easy to just make a fair judgment call when considering aspects of the game like the previous Homeworld comment mentioned.

[deleted]

All competitions have rules on what's allowed and not allowed. It's just a matter of picking a set of rules to start with. There will be disagreement but it's not an impossible task at all.

And it's not like there's only one way to do it.
You could have a Remakes/Remasters category, a "Best New Game" category that doesn't allow them, and then a separate "game of the year" category that does. It just depends on how many categories people want, and where they want to draw the lines.

How many stellar remakes/remasters are there a year worth that kind of consideration? Something like RE2 remake should qualify since it’s the best game of that year and it’s not because it’s the same as the old one.

Remake will make improvements on the gameplay and the engine. FF7 is a remake
Remaster is the same game only with upscaled graphics and zero changes to anything else. FF9 is a remaster

FF7 remake is a new game with new story elements though.

Weird how you've been downvoted for being right. The "remake" title is a clever play on words related to the story rather than a remake of the original FF7.


Who is going to be the authority on what is and what isnt a remake?

Me.

I too eledge u/Broly_ as the remake/remaster authority

Well, I don't know what it means to eledge a guy, but you seem pretty confident about the whole thing, so sure why not. I'll eledge him too.

I meant elect lmao
"Elect" in my language is "eleger" so I thought it was "eledge" in English for whatever reason

Make him the eledge lord.

The music industry. Remaster is anything that uses the original as a base and improves it vs redoing the whole thing but making it feel/look like the original. Like digitally de-noising an old track to make it sound better vs getting the original band back together to re-record it with better equipment.
The same logic can be used for games. If they are taking the actual fully made game and going in and improving textures, adding quality of life features etc. then thats a remaster. If they redo the game, like remaking it in a different engine or just starting from scratch then even if they are taking some of the original parts and putting them in that would still be a remake.

I mean, I feel like the names kind of delineate them fine, it's marketing people using them interchangeably that muddies the water and causes issues.
Did you actually make the game again? With changes to improve the experience and bring it in line with modern titles? It's a remake.
Did you take the old game, make it run on modern hardware and give it a fresh lick of paint? It's a remaster.

Put Scott the Woz in charge of it. He's got it all figured out.

The same fart-huffing assholes who make the nominations and present the awards, I guess.

Also at what point does a remake become a reboot?

And I disagree.
They took the original game, on the same engine and updated it. It was not remade from scratch like for example, the Demon's Souls remake on PS5, which is on a completely different engine with entirely new assets, but the same core gameplay and story.

A remake is when the game is made new from the ground up in a new engine for example

Does it play and look better than the old one and has a fair price point?
Who the fuck cares?

The old one isn't even available separately anymore (and is also a massive pain to get running on modern systems since the original game is nearly 25 years old and the sequel included is at least 20)

I think a better example is The Last of Us on ps5. Remade from the ground up but is basically the exact same game with minimal gameplay changes

I think those are the games that turn this discussion into a confusing mess.
Metroid Prime Remaster falls into that category as well, IMO.
It's the same game as the original, I think it does use part of the original code, but it was (mostly) made from the ground up. Not to mention it was called a remaster, and not a remake.

It the publisher doesn't understand the difference then that's on them

Well, you could say that Cyberpunk 2.0 update remakes the game, so...

[deleted]

I agree, with one limitation. Remasters are a pure cash grab, if there's isn't a long time period (Let's say a decade or more) between it and the original release. Basically a new player generation came to the medium since then. A System shock remaster would be okay to be judged for its own, IMO.
Remakes are their own thing. Not all are good (IMO The Mafia remake wasn't as good as the original, for an example where I played both), but they can be judged as a new game.


A System shock remaster would be okay to be judged for its own, IMO.

If you're rebuilding the entire game in a new engine, you've moved out of remaster and into remake territory IMO.

maybe having their own catagory would be more appropriate like best remake/remaster. I bet in a few years there will be enough competition to justify it.


Remasters are a pure cash grab, if there's isn't a long time period (Let's say a decade or more)

By that time, the only option should be a remake anyway. If you're just upping textures in a 10+yo engine you lazy af and don't deserve anything. Heavily side eyes Rockstar

I agree with you. Like if Nintendo (finally...) decided to bring Ocarina of Time to consoles as something other than a ROM and somehow no new games could compete with something from the 90s, then great, let 'em have the win.


Like if Nintendo (finally...) decided to bring Ocarina of Time to consoles as something other than a ROM

Yes, another good example. IMO, games could even cut features that weren't popular. 
I don't need a working PvP multiplayer for the remaster of a classic game where the Multiplayer sucked, for example. 9 out of 10 times the Singleplayer experience is all that people are looking for, IMO.

It depends on whether we're talking about Conkers bad fur day or not.

context sensitive


Conkers bad fur day

I don't know that one lol, I mostly played PC only besides some SNES in my early childhood.

I think it was the last game to come out on N64 and by Rare. Might be able to find it on Xbox somewhere now. Great game, really a lot of toilet humor, but it slapped when I was a kid. The multiplayer had a ton of different game modes to mess with and had AI you could use to fill out the game. Teddy bears vs squirrels with bazookas and chainsaws, it was a great time.

The remake was Conker Live and Reloaded on the xbox. I remember playing the hell out of the online multiplayer

It’s on game pass along with banjo kazooie

Dead Space Remake leaned into this and it was great. Pretty much everyone agrees that the Asteroid Defense System cannons section was the worst part of the original game. It's a frustrating section where you have to blow up asteroids with a painfully slow fixed turret that's easy to fail and plays nothing like the rest of the game. So the remake removed that section, mechanically, and redid the ADS cannons with completely new mechanics. They also swapped how zero-g locomotion worked to the much preferred implementation in Dead Space 2 and 3 (remaking the levels that used the mechanic so they made sense with the change).
The coolest part was that the remake embraced the power difference between 7th and 9th gen consoles. The lighting system is much more robust, so the spaceship full of monsters is much darker and more reliant on your flashlight (they even added a section where you need to power an elevator by diverting power from either the lights or life support, making you rely on either your suit's tiny flashlight or tiny air canister), and what used to be a series of discreet levels is now seamless and with more backtracking to take advantage of it.


Yes, another good example. IMO, games could even cut features that weren't popular. 

Or ones that were and repackage them as DLC! Lookin at you RE4 Seperate Ways!

Meh, the game sucks ass by modern standards and no one would dare to say that because it's such a loved classic. The same goes for basically any classic that's loved by a whole generation.
There are some games I play every couple of years for the nostalgia, but even if I'd love a high quality remake, it doesn't mean they should be competing against new games. I don't care about AAA games losing to remakes, but it's already rough enough for indie devs.

I would throw so much money at them if I got to play all the old Pokemon games on my switch. Just port them like with the 3DS. I can't imagine that this would take much work. And I can't be the only one.

Sell your switch, buy a steam deck, emulate all nintendo games. Fuck nintendo

What kills me is that they already made the RBY world in 3D...and then wasted it on Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee. Like, the game is already there. Just release it with the original gameplay intact and I will pay $60 for it.
Or alternatively make Gold/Silver because you already have Kanto and now just need to build Johto in 3D.

You mean you don’t want a Pokémon game that is completely unplayable with a normal controller?

I'm okay with Remasters as long as no current gen console can play it. PS4 Last of Us because it's a different console and Last of Us 2 is out? Sure, bit early but why not. PS5 Last of Us? Gtfoh.

I really enjoyed playing Diablo remastered and its a trip to flip it back to the original graphics.

agreed, FFVII:R =/= WC3 remastered, for example

Yep. FF7R is fantastic and truly a remake. It deserved the attention it was getting for possible GOTY.

Yeah. They could take the shine away from the likes of the new Nintendo Switch game, Red Dead Redemption

Who even cares about game awards

We should actively ignore them. Hollywood executives created their award culture so that most film makers would make the movies they wanted and be happy for it. Fast forward to now and that crap was copied to video games. These awards bring nothing to the table.
Edit: from here:

"I found that the best way to handle them was to hang medals all over them,” said Mayer, according to Scott Eyman's biography, "Lion of Hollywood."
"If I got them cups and awards they’d kill themselves to produce what I wanted," Mayer added. "That’s why the Academy Award was created."


[deleted]

Now it makes sense as to why every franchise is trying to have its “endgame” moment

You're right on them bringing nothing to the table and being ignored. Everything else you said was a freshly cooked nothing-burger

Funny, because I backed myself with a citation, you don't even present a counter-point. Who has nothing between us?

I vote on steam. That’s about the extent that I care

I care when a game I love gets an award.

why?
does it make the game better?

Knowing that the devs of a game I love recieve plaudits they very much deserve makes me happy. :)
Also, it is a way of validating my opinion. If I like a game and it wins an award it makes me feel like I have good taste
Finally, if a game I love gets an award more people are likely to play it meaning I have more people to talk about it with.

[deleted]

Thanks! The other guy didn't appreciate my honesty :(

You sound like a person who has a lot of empathy and likes sharing happiness and fun with others :)

An influx of users and cash often does, yes.

https://assetsio.reedpopcdn.com/1351081625.6.jpg

I think people bounce between caring too much and caring too little. 
Too much because it doesn’t actually matter much what others say is good. If you care that much, you’re probably young or just way too deep into it. 
But caring too little takes away the fun of it all because what those awards are actually for us to spread the word about well made pieces of media/art to people who otherwise wouldn’t care. I know Baldur’s Gate is a popular franchise but there’s gonna be so many people that have never played that kinda game who experience Baldur’s Gate 3 solely because it’s so highly rated. It spreads the word. And when the end of the year lists come out and amid RE4make and Zelda and Baldur’s Gate being nominated, sneaking in indie stuff like Dave the Diver will expose lots of people to stuff they probably absolutely never heard about. 
Caring too much about this stuff is a sickness but being so detached from awards stuff for games or movies makes you forget that it’s actually good for the medium to celebrate the art form. Especially when you know most people only really play Madden and FIFA and CoD and Fortnite and those people might expand their palate because of awards shows.

It be corporate trash sorry

Good job proving his point.

You eat up corporate trash =(


I know Baldur’s Gate is a popular franchise but there’s gonna be so many people that have never played that kinda game who experience Baldur’s Gate 3 solely because it’s so highly rated. 

I really doubt this is true. No one who ignores the user reviews, ignores the memes, ignores the videos, ignores the streams, and ignores all the fan circle jerks is going to watch award shows to figure out what game they should buy. 
And no one is going to buy a game they had otherwise shunned because it is Gamespotstop's game of the year.

I know I've bought games because they were nominated for GOTY awards, and therefore had discussions about why they should've won it

it's not for us to spread the word at all? if you think gamers have any actual say in awards shows you're a moron.

Depends. If a remake brings a lot of changes and improvements, like RE2RE being made on a different modern engine, having significantly different gameplay, new visuals and so on, being decades apart from original, it should deserve a spot in mainline game awards. Else, a separate category for sure.

Yea, but how do you define the boundary? The game may bring new mechanics, but theres more than that to a game. Story, art style, music - all things that affect the experience of the game, but generally stay the same in a remake. It should still be a separate category imo.

In staying with OP's example, RE2R

The story is actually slightly different; different things happen or they happen out of sequence with RE2OG
The art style was completely new due to the RE Engine
The music was completely rewritten and redone too

As United States Supreme Court Justice Potter Stewart said during Jacobellis vs The State of Ohio 1964: "although I cannot directly define it, I know it when I see it, and this is it".

This also presumes that we're taking the care to make a distinction of those categories versus "the awards".
Dead Space Remake has a completely redone sound design from the original game, but does it being a remake disqualify it from being nominated and/or winning Best Sound Design? I would argue no, I think it should be allowed to compete.
In contrast, The Last of Us Remake's voice and audio work are an asset turn from the og version, so I would then argue that it shouldn't be nominated/or win Best Sound Design, because it legitimately did not update anything.


Story, art style, music 

Those tend to be similar between sequels as well. People kept calling TotK a 70 dollar DLC, but that's the feeling I got from GoW Ragnarok (even though it's a lot bigger than the original, improves on aspects of the original and was worth the price). The story is the only thing that's completely different, for very obvious reasons. I feel like a line can be drawn somewhere.

Never played Ragnarok, but TOTK did feel like a DLC to me.
It is better than BOTW. But it lacked that "wow" factor that BOTW had. I actually like BOTW more because it was fresh and new.. TOTK didn't feel like that. The sky islands were barebones. The depths is just filled with emptiness and no multiple biomes. The story is pathetic and was written by a 5 year old. And the dungeons... those were just insulting. How the hell does wind waker, a game that looks even more kid friendy, have harder dungeons? Also there were barely any new enemies.
Can't complain about the gameplay though, that was fun.

Someone once called the new god of war a really well directed HBO series ......
That that really stuck with me cause they're not wrong 
Both new games are great but holy cow they are like tv episodes 
Hell rangnaroks gate opening scene is literally made to be a cliffhanger for a two parter


Both new games are great but holy cow they are like tv episodes 

As in a lot of cutscenes?

The way they're directed. 
Beautifully may I add, but it just screams like they went with a film esque framing rather than game based frames.

They're extremely well done and the plot, pacing, and story telling is performed/played out very well. Like much of it is just walking up and the conversations occur by virtue of just being in the vicinity. A great example is if you're just cruising around in the boat in the older game there's an NPC on your hip telling you stories on and off again. I'd find myself just paddling around more to hear them all. Lots of small QoL stuff that really made the game.

Sure if you pretend it’s all cut scenes and not packed with great combat, puzzles, and exploration

I felt the same way about ff16. Would be better if they just made a tv series.

How do you define best art? it is all subjective. if it feels like a new game it is a new game even if it is a remake. you can't put objective rules on something that you only judge subjectively.

It's just that no matter how much you do to update a game, so much work has already been done by the time you start. 
There's a galaxy of difference between starting from nothing, and starting with a feature-complete, mechanically-rich video game from the 90's that sold well at the time, and the fanbase still exists, and that fanbase is more mature with more money now.
Did those systems have to get reverse engineered and rebuilt? Yup. But I don't care, that's actually the easy part of building a game.
Investing in an idea that you have no guarantee  of it selling once everything is finished and ready? That's hard. Getting 200 developers together, and paying them to invest their time and brain power into some new game no one has ever heard of? That's a risk. That's something I can respect. 
RE2RE is something I wanted, and I like it, but there was nothing risky about it in the slightest. And Capcom doesn't deserve an award for making the easiest move possible. Reskinning the same house in new trim RARELY deserves a reward. I'd rather award the actual designer who came up with RE2.

I’m interested in how this would then fit with sequels. They meet all the criteria you mention, including often having an existing loyal fanbase

Sequels, while obviously still carrying a lot over from the first entry, still have to build the advancement of the narrative, design new enemies and often times build new or greatly alter existing worlds.
I see your point but I'd consider a sequel still more "original" than taking an existing game and rebuilding it with maybe some alterations to the story and some more detail.

What's a diffrence between a remake and remaster

Remake is built up from the ground again. Complete overhaul of things, the game looks and feels the same, but it's a grand improvement in all sorts of manner from the original.
Example: Final Fantasy VII remake. Wind Waker HD
A remaster is a graphical upgrade only and perhaps a bit of an upgrade in menu's etc. But the game itself can be easily compared to the original.
Example: Need for Speed Hot Pursuit. Baten Kaitos Remastered.

Windwaker HD is a remaster. It received a big overhaul but it's still mostly the same thing with various enhancements.

Wind Waker HD is a remaster.

Maybe he meant Links Awaking?

I suppose mafia 1 was a remake then

yeah and mafia 2 a remaster

Wind Waker HD is a remaster.

Final fantasy VII remake does not qualify for your description. Only the main story line + characters are the same, all other aspects are completely different

Major spoilers for FF7R it's not even a remake, by the time you get to the end you realize it's a sequel. Calling it a remake was a brilliant bit of misdirection so you don't expect it.

I wouldn't call it a sequel either. It's a reimagining more than anything. 
But it's a fantastic poster child for why this entire debate is dumb as fuck.

Wait so how does that work , spoil me please 
How do you realize at the end that it was a sequel? While the entire game was still the reginal story

The current running theory is that the Sephiroth in Remake is post-Advent Children Sephiroth. You know, timey-wimey shenanigans. Not confirmed though.
Blatantly shown in the game though, spoiler alert: Whispers are not in the original game. They are in Remake as beings who's purpose is to make sure events go according to fate. At the end, against the semi-final boss the Whisper Harbinger, is a brief flash forward to an Advent Children scene (and a glimpse of Aerith's death scene), with Red XIII stating it was "a glimpse of tomorrow if we fail here today". The party does not fail, defeating the Whispers and defying fate, implying possible timeline changes in the next games.
Considering the Advent Children references in the "original" FF7, safe to say the game is a pseudo-sequel in some regard. Along with Sephiroth, there seems to be hints that Aerith may know a bit more than she leads on as well. Can't wait to see how it plays out.

Woah that very good indeed thanks for the answer 
So it would be considered like a retelling of the original story but with time shenanigans , pretty cools indeed

I also forgot one more key evidence to alternate timelines. There are a few cutscenes in Remake showing Zack, the protagonist of Crisis Core and Cloud's friend. At the end of Crisis Core, Zack dies. In Remake, at the end, it shows a scene of Zack triumphant in the battle that originally killed him, and carrying an injured Cloud back to Midgar, as opposed to dying and bequeathing the Buster Sword to Cloud.
Rather than that just being a change in the story for remake purposes, it is very clearly a different timeline entirely we are getting glimpses at.

I find your examples interesting. WWHD, with the exception of the fast sail and the truncated Triforce quest, is basically just (as the title implies) Wind Waker in HD. Which is fine, but I wouldn't consider it a full rebuild as it still plays the same.
On the other hand, FFVII remake isn't even really that; it's an entirely new game, just with the same plot as FFVII. Like, you could play both and have a totally different experience because they are not really the same game.

Spoiler for FFVII Remake: It and the other parts of the "remake" trilogy are going to be increasingly divorced from the plot of the original game, because they're not remakes, they're sequels.

[deleted]

Resident evil 4 is the greatest female ever?

Remakes fully remake  the entire game from scratch  ( eg . final fantasy 7 , pokemon Oras , demon souls remake )  , remasteres are just enhancements of the original , basically a glorified update ( eg , dark souls remastered,  spiderman remastered)

A remake is remade. A remaster is remastered. Like asking what's the difference between from scratch and from a mix. They're established terms with meanings. The answer is in the name. Remaster is a 60 year old term at this point, minimum.

Remake: See RE2 remake, and ff7 remake.
Remaster:  Last of us ps4/ps5.

Lol, The Last of Us has BOTH a remake and a remaster. 
The PS4 version that launches shortly after the console was released was a remaster. It was an easy way to bring the beloved game into the new generation of PS4 console, and was released a year after the original. 
The PS5 Version is a remake. The entire game was created from the ground up.

Remaster is based on the original code, remake isn't. That's the only relevant distinction and all the other stuff people go on about like "remaster exclusively improves the graphics while remakes make other changes to story and gameplay" are total and utter nonsense. 
Demon's Souls on PS5, for example, is a remake despite being only a graphical improvement, while Skyward Sword HD on Switch is a remaster despite containing quite a lot of changes other than the graphics. Why? The latter is based on the original source code, the former isn't (instead being a ground-up reconstruction of the original).

I kinda disagree.  If the best games are remakes and remasters of 10+ year old games then that should be a wake-up call to the studios to stop releasing incomplete, buggy, micro-transaction laden trash.

Or a call to just keep doing remasters/remakes instead of taking risks on new games or IP which to me is incredibly boring and kinda lazy.

That isn't what happens though, execs see record sales for remakes/remasters over new IP, that tells them to not innovate, not try anything new, but rather rely on the name and nostalgia of existing titles that you can slap a fresh coat of paint on to release and print money.

Who cares about games awards contest ?

the actual game developers themselves, it can boost their cv if they are applying to other studios as they could say the game they worked on won goty or some other award

The entire industry. A GOTY title much like an Oscar or whatever award win most definitely will boost sales and the bottom line is always the primary driver of pretty much everything once you cut through all the other bullshit. 
If we regular plebs didn't pay heed to these things they'd lose that but between people's love to argue about they think is "best" and the laziness of just picking the award winner when you don't know what to go for I don't see it ever really changing.

That's definitely fair. I never understood though why gamers care, why movie, music, TV show fans care about awards. A game, movie, song, TV show getting an award or not getting an award has no bearing on me enjoying or disliking something.

It affects how publishers and investors see studios, which affects what games get made. It doesn't affect your enjoyment of existing games, but like it or not it affects the gaming landscape going forward.

That's ok, but many people like celebrating things and give awards to them, which is okay too.

I'm happy for the publicity it gives games that were well made. But overall it's just an award from an outlet. It's not some undeniable proof of supreme work. And frankly for some of us we're tuning into those shows for the new content because some shows have new stuff announced during their awarding. 
For me personally I cannot ever take that end of year award show all that seriously. That same outlet put PUBG on the 2017 GOTY ballot when at the time it was as technically sound as a vanilla Bethesda RPG, and it got in over games like Resident Evil 7, Nier Automata and Hellblade. It's almost funny.
Oh and the year where Last of Us 2 got like every other award. I'll tinfoil the hell out of Sony deciding "Alright TLOU2 fandom is in civil war mode, shell out big bucks to awards show for that good PR to help" over that one.

I was pretty happy for "it takes two" 2 years ago.

It's honestly such a good game. I was also happy it got the win, it was very deserved/fair.
Here's hoping Hazelight puts out something similiar to It Takes Two/A Way Out sometime soon. I really enjoyed both experiences.

Everyone in the industry?

Why should you care as a consumer?

Consumers aren't in the industry?? Who cares

If the remake is good enough to compete with modern titles then it's earned the award.

the problem is that old games that get rereleased with updated graphics then become contender. the core gameplay wouldnt need to be changed and the reason it holds up is because its a good game with a good gameplay loop. it would land into situations where the original already had its time in the sun, but here it is, the same game in contention for first place as early as half a decade after release.

So if it was good 5 years ago why can’t it be good now? If modern games can’t beat 5 yr old games then do the modern games really deserve to win?

the problem isnt the lazy ones winning, indeed only fabulous remasters have won any game awards worth noting. the problem the lazy ones taking spots that new works could have benifited from.
even if the new work cant beat the 5 year old one, that doesnt matter. a game from 2015 shouldnt be able to time travel eight years forward after its release and able to earn goty 2023 just because the devs got told to put a fresh coat of paint on their engine by their publishers.

I assume your talking about metroid prime remastered? When I saw the lost of games that one looked like filler. So did the Mario game. They are good games, but everyone can see they are not revolutionary like bg3 or TOTK this year.

Probably Dead Space or Resident Evil. Isn't Metroid Prime a complete remake of a game that came out over twenty years ago? There are young adults playing that game that weren't even concieved when the OG came out.

As much of a Metroid fan as I am--and as good as MPR was--Metroid Prime Remastered was a fresh coat of paint and an option for modernized controls.  Otherwise, it was the same (extremely good) game that it originally was.


the problem is that old games that get rereleased with updated graphics then become contender.

So?

Skyrim won game of the year 2011.  How many years of re-releases should it also get game of the year?  It's great that it got updated and put on other systems, and it's in the contention for best game ever.  So also game of the year special edition 2016 and anniversary edition 2021?  How many "game of the year" should a the best game have?

It's a never ending cycle of IP that never enters public domain because you end up with resident evil 4: remake 49 in the year 2067

the "so" is that nothing changed from one game to the other, its the same game with a fresh coat of paint.

If the game is good enough to beat the bad games of this decade, then so be it.

sentiments like this is why a third of all games released nowadays are bloody remasters...
if a game is good enough to beat the bad games of this decade, then go play the original and stop rewarding game publishers for being lazy to actually motivate them to go make something awesome for once instead sitting on their asses churning out half baked cash grab games weve been getting for the last five goddamn years.

So why stop there? Why not did the rdr2 port not get game of the year, or gtav, or when gtav on ps5.

So with that logic, most sequels should also be disqualified because they have the same gameplay loop

the difference is that sequals have a responsibility to try to iterate and improve on the original (as do the remakes) if they do that, and do that well enough, then sure, nominate them for goty.
but any sequal that is just bog standard call of duty style factory produced crap where the gameplay is fundementally identical to its predicessor of four years usually doesnt even get on the contender list for goty, nevermind actually win it. its at worse a non issue.
this isnt the case for remasters though, they dont have to iterate or improve at all to be in contention, past the expected graphical update. its a cheat code for winning game awards. not only is the gameplay fundimentally the same, the entire game is fundimentally the same.

I get what you mean but new games that come out for the first time have to compete on several fronts ofc, not just technicality and how good it looks but how much do the ideas presented resonate with the people buying the game, that sort of thing. Newly released modern games do have to be able to draw in audiences for the first time to be successful.
But nobody is remaking a game that wasn't popular and nobody liked, the games being remade are ones that a lot of people already love and are excited by, that's a whole aspect that remakes don't have to factor in at all. Remakes are made with a population of fans that already exist and that the company has determined would be willing to purchase their remake. Newly released modern games don't have that at all. It's like, the first place prize podium for remakes is already half built but new games have to build it from scratch.

Then do you judge Skyrim in every year that it was released?

Skyrim has never had a remake

I think it's time to learn the difference between remakes remasters and ports

"Good enough to compete with" or "Viewed through the lens of nostalgia"

Exactly. N64 games are all hot garbage by modern standards. But I guarantee that Ocarina of Time and Goldeneye remakes would win awards if they were shit just because of the nostalgia.
Nah, fuck this shit, the industry already isn't innovative enough.

Battlebit remastered?

Isn't it called remastered just as a joke because it got a lot of updates before it even came out of beta ?

The original idea was more Mil-Sim and they found that it didn't really have an audience for it. And that most people that had been backing it found it too slow and clunky. So they went back to the drawing board and made it more Battlefield arcade-like style and redid a bunch of things.

FF7 remake : yes
FF7 Crisis core remaster : no

Remasters (e.g. Final Fantasy on Steam, Tales of Symphonia remastered). Yeah those are just touched up ports. Still the same game, just prettier.
Remake? Depends, is it all the same code but all fresh assets? (Metroid Prime) or is the whole game built again from the ground up? (Links Awakening). Some remasters are more like remakes and vice versa. Sure, the game is the same but all the assests are remade and things like the controls upgraded for the new system. I guess I still wouldn't count them for awards unless it's really been overhauled and it's not just a Same Game HD.
Re-imagining (e.g. FF7 Remake, RE2 Remake). Totally fair. Despite the name, these barely qualify as remakes. It's basically a different game. Just because the premise is the same doesn't mean anything, people put a lot of work into making it new. If it doesn't even play like the old one especially so.

Is the irony intentional?
This is a remake of a meme

Glad I'm not the only one to notice that Lisa's face is just a bit... off?

Yap. Remastered template for criticizing remasters and remakes.

Well not true. Resident Evil is perfect remake and worth new reviews and awards

I thought everyone knew that pretty much all awards/contests in entertainment - games/movies/music/etc - are pay-to-win. Why do you give them even a moment? It's all marketing and advertising BS.

Remasters yes, remakes no

I don't care about game awards in the slightest, but I am always a bit annoyed if a remaster or something like that is being counted like a game for that particular system.
For example, early on in the 3DS lifecycle, and probably a long time afterwards, Ocarina of Time was hailed as the Nr. 1 best 3DS game.
It's like... what do you mean best "3DS" game? I was playing that game more than 10 years ago already. If that's the best 3DS game then that's a very sad statement about the 3DS.

Yes except for FF7 which is wildly different enough.

Nah you wrong for this
Resident Evil 4 remake
Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire
FF7
Shadow of the Colossus 
Oblivion remake!?
Lollipop chainsaw remake!?!?!?
I get hating lazy remasters, but some remakes are really special

A remake and a remaster are different in my eyes

They are! 
A remaster is usually just a graphical upgrade (sometimes minor QoL and UI updates) while a remake is built new from the ground up.

In film and television they do “best original screenplay”
Why not the gaming industry? 
You shouldn’t DISQUALIFY a good film/game from “best” of the year. Just have a separate award for “best original”.

This makes the most sense to me unless it becomes a problem that remakes/remasters consistently dominate year after year after year in which case I think the awards people would be worried about their awards becoming devalued. As long as it remains a mix then a best original vs overall best should be good.

Makes sense to me!

Alternate take; if a remaster of a 10-20 year old game is legitimately better than your modern game, you've failed as a game developer.

Well, there's too many dimensions to quantify "better".
I mean, I guess a game could be "worse" if it's a glitchy hot mess, but if it's not a glitchy hot mess and its execution is pristine, then "better" is subjective.
Maybe I don't like fantasy magical wizard warlock ogre dwarf medieval games, but instead like sci-fi futuristic lazers phasers and ion ray cannons with time travel and antigravity flying cars. 
Does that mean fantasy games are worse?
Maybe I like low-poly lo-fi pixellated textures with vertex lighting, while other games have physically-based materials, realtime global illumination, and optically accurate depth-of-field and realistic post-processing effects.
Does that mean low-fi games are better?
After a point, the only thing that matters is whether or not your art form is a sustainable business model to survive on. There is no "better", there's just "success".

I disagree with remakes but remasters yes

Re2re et Re4re are goty worthy

Re4 Remake is my GOTY ❤️

Hard agree.
Remakes and Remasters are fun some of the time, but I would rather have new, 7/10 IPs taking some risks than endless reboots and remasters.
This is why systems like the PS2 with tons and tons of obscure action games have the best hidden gems. So many games that were taking a lot of risk to the formula.
Now every single game has to check all these AAA boxes and it's so fucking tiresome.

For the same reason The Oscars are given to movies based on the studio that made them, it's all promotional stunts.
Same reason why the most "voted" streamer is not the ones with better content but the one selling more gamer chalk drinks.

Conversely, who gives a fuck about game awards?

Possibly unpopular opinion: Let them in.
Remakes/remasters already carry the stigma of "current gen lacks originality, so they have to bring the classics back".
So the winner is this 25 year old game that that was ported to modern consoles and upscaled? Yeah I want the game industry to get the message loud and clear. Either do better or accept the whole thing is a farce.
That said I agree there should be rules on "best story/character", like Team Four Star often repeats, "we have over 20 years of hindsight in our favor", so no I won't accept a retelling of Cloud's character as "original" even if they are bold enough to have the remake end with Cloud bridal carrying Tifa around, they're just turning 5/7 of fanfics canon.

From my perspective, unless you're creating a substantially different game in both story and presentation, all remakes/remasters should be disqualified or have a separate "Best Remake/Remaster" category.

Remakes are often times new games with the same plot/basis. They are deserving of recognition.
Remasters are not (at least, not the SAME recognition).

The thing I don't understand is how games not yet released have already gotten some awards. For example Payday 3, which as of right now has a mostly negative rating on steam, has the Gamescom best PC game award 2023, while (at the time) not being fucking released yet. How can you award a game when it's not even out to play.

Nah dude if it’s award worthy it’s award worthy

You really believe that the Dead Space and RE4 remakes don't deserve to compete?
And who cares about awards anyway, it's just the industry trying to lick its own arse and congratulate the biggest sellers, just like the Oscars.

There should be just a reward for best remake and best remaster. That's it.

Who cares about game awards?
"Re-whatevers should be banned from marketing events"
Most award shows are already a joke while some atleast have qualified peers as judeges, but I haven't seen any game awards show that was anything but a shallow marketing event.

Who cares about game awards?

depends, there are usually two catagories for remakes
you have simple graphics updates with maybe a couple qol updates like the last of us
or you have full blown reimaginations of the original concept to what it was supposed to be, but was held back due to the limitations of its time like resident evil 2, or the hl1 remake.

Same as trans athletes should have their own sports league?

no

I disagree. New games competing with old titles also set some standards for the new games as well.
Besides, we have new generations playing games who might also like the old games and have never tried them.
From the top of my head, I'd put Diablo 2 remaster against these new games. It's been 20 years...

Equally important old classic music should not be remastered simply to make it louder by reducing the dynamic range with compression 🤬

People care bout these awards?

That's because you believe "Game Award" is some sort of serious thing and not just another marketing stunt.

Bad take. Something like the resident evil reimaginations deserves every nomination it gets

Nah remakes are great ddead space, re4, destroy all humans, but remasters are low effort and pretty much only for people who still play the original on rotation

